[DOCS] Add cpx mode (#1555)
ROCm/rccl: docs/how-to/rccl-usage-tips.rst

This feature requires GPUs that support peer-to-peer access along with
proper large BAR addressing support.

Improving performance on the MI300X 
===================================

> Less than 8 GPUs usage

Reviewer: Nested titles aren't allowed with our style guide. Either delete this heading or add some introductory information after the "Improving performance on the MI300X" header.

Author: Added a description.

> Less than 8 GPUs usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration with fewer than eight GPUs
```

Reviewer: This is in case you decide to add an intro and keep the header. The Microsoft style guide advises fewer instead of less in this case (and the ones below).

Author: Ah okay, thank you.

Author: Fixed.

----------------------

On a system with 8\*MI300X accelerators, each pair of accelerators is connected
with dedicated Infinity Fabric™ links in a fully-connected topology. For
collective operations, this can achieve good performance when all 8 accelerators

> (and all Infinity Fabric™ links) are used. When less than 8 GPUs are used,

Reviewer: Only use TM on the first instance

Author: OK, thanks.

however, this can only achieve a fraction of the potential bandwidth on the
system. However, if your workload warrants using less than 8 MI300X accelerators
on a system, you can set the run-time variable ``NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS`` to

> increase the number of channels. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a system with eight MI300X accelerators, each pair of accelerators is connected
with dedicated Infinity Fabric™ links in a fully connected topology. For
collective operations, this can achieve good performance when all eight accelerators
(and all Infinity Fabric links) are used. When fewer than eight GPUs are used,
however, this can only achieve a fraction of the potential bandwidth on the
system. However, if your workload warrants using fewer than eight MI300X accelerators
on a system, you can set the run-time variable ``NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS`` to
increase the number of channels. For example:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS=32

Increasing the number of channels can benefit performance, but it also increases
GPU utilization for collective operations.

> Additionally, RCCL pre-defines a higher number of channels when only 2 or 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, RCCL pre-defines a higher number of channels when only two or four
```

accelerators are in use on a 8\*MI300X system. In this situation, RCCL uses 32
channels with two MI300X accelerators and 24 channels for four MI300X
accelerators.

.. _nps4_cpx_mi300_rccl:

NPS4 and CPX partition modes
----------------------------

There are multiple spatial partitioning modes available such as SPX, DPX, TPX,

> QPX and CPX, and these modes are referred as compute partition modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple spatial partitioning modes available, such as SPX, DPX, TPX,
QPX, and CPX. These modes are referred as compute partition modes.
```

Similarly, there are different memory partition modes available such as NPS1,
NPS2, NPS4 etc. A compute partition mode can only be combined with specific

> memory partition modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, there are different memory partition modes available, such as NPS1,
NPS2, and NPS4. A compute partition mode can only be combined with specific
memory partition modes.
```

- Compute partition modes 

  - SPX - Single Partition mode.
  
  - DPX - Dual Partition mode or two equal spatial partitions.

  - TPX - Triple Partition mode or three equal spatial partitions.

  - QPX - Quad Partition mode or four equal spatial partitions.

  - CPX - Core Partition mode. In this mode, each compute partion

>     mode has only single core cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compute partition modes 

  - SPX - Single partition mode.
  
  - DPX - Dual partition mode or two equal spatial partitions.

  - TPX - Triple partition mode or three equal spatial partitions.

  - QPX - Quad partition mode or four equal spatial partitions.

  - CPX - Core partition mode. In this mode, each compute partition
    mode only has a single core cluster.
```

Reviewer: I don't think partition should be capitalized here, but please confirm.

Author: I was on the edge with that.

  
- Memory Partition Modes 

  - NPS1 - One memory partition/numa domain per device.

  - NPS2 - Two memory partitions/numa domains per device.

>   - NPS4 - Four memory partitions/numa domains per device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Memory partition modes 

  - NPS1 - One memory partition/NUMA domain per device.

  - NPS2 - Two memory partitions/NUMA domains per device.

  - NPS4 - Four memory partitions/NUMA domains per device.
```

For more information, visit the following page :doc:`rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes`.

> The MI300 can be set to CPX mode with rocm-smi commands below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see :doc:`<rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes>`.
The MI300 can be set to CPX mode using the ``rocm-smi`` commands below.
```

.. code-block:: shell

   sudo rmmod amdgpu
   sudo rmmod ast
   sudo modprobe amdgpu
   rocm-smi --setcomputepartition CPX
 
   ## rocm-smi should list 64 GPUs (devices 0 to 63)
   rocm-smi

> This setting can be also reached with sysfs showed in the following example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting can be also reached with sysfs showed in the following example.
```
```suggestion
This setting can be also configured with sysfs, as shown in the following example.
```

.. code-block:: shell

  $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
  NPS1
  $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition
  SPX
  $echo NPS4 > /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
  $rmmod amdgpu
  $modprobe amdgpu
  $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
  NPS4
  $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition
  CPX

> RCCL performance with CPX+NPS4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RCCL performance with CPX and NPS4
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Run RCCL Allreduce on 64 GPUs with CPX+NPS4 mode on MI300X:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run RCCL allreduce on 64 GPUs with CPX+NPS4 mode on the MI300X, use this example:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   mpirun -np 64 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

> Run RCCL Allreduce on 8 GPUs in the same OAM with CPX+NPS4 mode on MI300X:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run RCCL allreduce on 8 GPUs in the same OAM with CPX+NPS4 mode on the MI300X, use this example:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

> RCCL delivers improved allreduce performance  in CPX mode for TP=8 (8 GPUs in
> the same OAM) on MI300X 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RCCL delivers improved allreduce performance in CPX mode for TP=8 (8 GPUs in
the same OAM) on the MI300X 
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1
   export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=1073741824

   export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 
   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 32 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1 -G 2 -w 20 -n 50

> The benchmark results for in-place (the output buffer is used as the input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the benchmark results for in-place (where the output buffer is used as the input
```

buffer) and out-of-place reduce bus bandwidth.

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/in-place_reduce.png
    :alt: In-place reduce benchmark results
    :align: center

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/out-of-place_reduce.png
    :alt: Out-of-place reduce benchmark results
    :align: center

> 

Reviewer: The numbers on the lower axis of the graph run together in some places. Also, I think Bytes would be better than Byte for the lower-axis units.

Author: Fixed. Please check it.

Reviewer: Yes, looks good now.

> Using RCCL+CPX in PyTorch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using RCCL and CPX in PyTorch
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The PyTorch all_reduce benchmark is used to reproduce the performance reported
> using RCCL-Tests with RCCL+CPX optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PyTorch all_reduce benchmark is used to reproduce the performance reported
by RCCL-Tests with RCCL+CPX optimizations.
```

.. note::

   To use RCCL with CPX mode in PyTorch, check the RCCL version used by PyTorch.

>    For a virtualenv with a .whl-based PyTorch setup (nightly/rocm6.2 at the time
>    of writing), this would be in 
>    ``<path-to-your-venv>/lib/<python-version>/site-packages/torch/lib/librccl.so``
>    This will be RCCL that is packaged as part of ROCm 6.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For a virtualenv with a .whl-based PyTorch setup (such as nightly/rocm6.2), this would be in 
   ``<path-to-your-venv>/lib/<python-version>/site-packages/torch/lib/librccl.so``
   This is the version of RCCL that is packaged as part of ROCm version 6.2.
```

Reviewer: Best not to add qualifiers like "at the time of writing". These quickly fall out of date.

Author: Updated.

>    RCCL for CPX mode was enabled in ROCm 6.3.0. So, replace this existing 
>    ``librccl.so`` with one from ROCm 6.3.0 or newer, or from a local build of
>    RCCL develop branch to use CPX features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   RCCL for CPX mode was enabled in ROCm 6.3.0. To use the CPX features, replace the existing 
   ``librccl.so`` with one from ROCm 6.3.0 or newer or from a local build of
   the RCCL develop branch.
```

> To test rccl effect on PyTorch the `stas00 all reduce benchmark <https://github.com/stas00/ml-engineering/blob/master/network/benchmarks/all_reduce_bench.py>`_
> was used. The following command is used to run a single OAM all reduce
> benchmark:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the effects of RCCL on PyTorch, the `stas00 all reduce benchmark <https://github.com/stas00/ml-engineering/blob/master/network/benchmarks/all_reduce_bench.py>`_
was used. The following command is used to run a single OAM allreduce
benchmark:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 ; python -u -m torch.distributed.run --nproc_per_node=8 --rdzv_endpoint localhost:6000  --rdzv_backend c10d all_reduce_bench.py

> For better performance the ``HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG``, ``RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD``
> and ``TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK`` environment variables are
> set during the benchmark run in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For better performance, the ``HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG``, ``RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD``,
and ``TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK`` environment variables are
set during the benchmark in the following manner:
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK=1 ; export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1 ; export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=$((2*1024*1024*1024)) ; export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 ; export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 ; python -u -m torch.distributed.run --nproc_per_node=8 --rdzv_endpoint localhost:6000  --rdzv_backend c10d all_reduce_bench.py

> The default all reduce torch benchmark peak busbandwith performance is ~170 GB/s
> on a single OAM with ROCm 6.2.4, while the optimized run for CPX on a single
> OAM peak at ~315 GB/s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default allreduce PyTorch benchmark peak bus bandwidth performance is ~170 GB/s
on a single OAM with ROCm 6.2.4, while the optimized run for CPX on a single
OAM peaks at ~315 GB/s.
```

This feature requires GPUs that support peer-to-peer access along with
proper large BAR addressing support.

Improving performance on the MI300X 
===================================

This section outlines ways to improve RCCL performance on MI300X systems,

> including guides for systems with fewer than eight GPUs and the most efficient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
including guidelines for systems with fewer than eight GPUs and the most efficient
```

On a system with eight MI300X accelerators, each pair of accelerators is connected
with dedicated Infinity Fabric™ links in a fully connected topology. For
collective operations, this can achieve good performance when all eight accelerators
(and all Infinity Fabric links) are used. When fewer than eight GPUs are used,
however, this can only achieve a fraction of the potential bandwidth on the
system. However, if your workload warrants using fewer than eight MI300X accelerators
on a system, you can set the run-time variable ``NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS`` to
increase the number of channels. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

   export NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS=32

Increasing the number of channels can benefit performance, but it also increases
GPU utilization for collective operations.
Additionally, RCCL pre-defines a higher number of channels when only two or four
accelerators are in use on a 8\*MI300X system. In this situation, RCCL uses 32
channels with two MI300X accelerators and 24 channels for four MI300X
accelerators.

.. _nps4_cpx_mi300_rccl:

NPS4 and CPX partition modes
----------------------------

There are multiple spatial partitioning modes available, such as SPX, DPX, TPX,

> QPX, and CPX. These modes are referred as compute partition modes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QPX, and CPX. These modes are referred to as compute partition modes.
```

Similarly, there are different memory partition modes available, such as NPS1,
NPS2, and NPS4. A compute partition mode can only be combined with specific
memory partition modes.

- Compute partition modes 

  - SPX - Single partition mode.
  
  - DPX - Dual partition mode or two equal spatial partitions.

  - TPX - Triple partition mode or three equal spatial partitions.

  - QPX - Quad partition mode or four equal spatial partitions.

  - CPX - Core partition mode. In this mode, each compute partition
    mode only has a single core cluster.
  
- Memory partition modes 

  - NPS1 - One memory partition/NUMA domain per device.

  - NPS2 - Two memory partitions/NUMA domains per device.

  - NPS4 - Four memory partitions/NUMA domains per device.

> For more information, see :doc:`<rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes>`.

Reviewer: This is just displaying as regular text (see <rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes>). I think you might need to add some anchor text here, or maybe there is a subtle formatting issue here?

Author: We need to merge in the other PR first, after that the link will be live.

Author: Yeah, I missed out the anchor text. Updating.

> page. The MI300 can be set to CPX mode using the ``rocm-smi`` commands below.

Reviewer 2: An MI300 GPU can be set to CPX mode ... seems to be a better wording for the sentence.

Author: Updated.

.. code-block:: shell

   sudo rmmod amdgpu
   sudo rmmod ast
   sudo modprobe amdgpu
   rocm-smi --setcomputepartition CPX
 
   ## rocm-smi should list 64 GPUs (devices 0 to 63)
   rocm-smi

This setting can be also configured with sysfs, as shown in the following example.

.. code-block:: shell

>   $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition

Author: ```suggestion
  $ cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
```

  NPS1

>   $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition

Author: ```suggestion
  $ cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition
```

  SPX

>   $echo NPS4 > /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition

Author: ```suggestion
  $ echo NPS4 > /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
```

>   $rmmod amdgpu

Author: ```suggestion
  $ rmmod amdgpu
```

>   $modprobe amdgpu

Author: ```suggestion
  $ modprobe amdgpu
```

>   $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition

Author: ```suggestion
  $ cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_memory_partition
```

  NPS4

>   $cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition

Author: ```suggestion
  $ cat /sys/bus/pci/devices/../current_compute_partition
```

  CPX

RCCL performance with CPX and NPS4
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To run RCCL allreduce on 64 GPUs with CPX+NPS4 mode on the MI300X, use this example:

.. code-block:: shell

   mpirun -np 64 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

To run RCCL allreduce on 8 GPUs in the same OAM with CPX+NPS4 mode on the MI300X, use this example:

.. code-block:: shell

   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

> RCCL delivers improved allreduce performance in CPX mode for TP=8 (8 GPUs in
> the same OAM) on the MI300X 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RCCL delivers improved allreduce performance in CPX mode for TP=8 (8 GPUs in
the same OAM) on the MI300X.
```

.. code-block:: shell

   export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1
   export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=1073741824

   export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 
   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 32 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1 -G 2 -w 20 -n 50

Here are the benchmark results for in-place (where the output buffer is used as the input
buffer) and out-of-place reduce bus bandwidth.

> .. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/in-place_reduce.png

Reviewer 2: Do you mean `allreduce` here?

Author: Updated the title.

    :alt: In-place reduce benchmark results
    :align: center

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/out-of-place_reduce.png
    :alt: Out-of-place reduce benchmark results

>     :align: center

Reviewer 2: Please add a discussion on the performance improvement achieved here.

Author: DONE.

Using RCCL and CPX in PyTorch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The PyTorch all_reduce benchmark is used to reproduce the performance reported

> by RCCL-Tests with RCCL+CPX optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by RCCL-Tests with the RCCL and CPX optimizations.
```

.. note::

   To use RCCL with CPX mode in PyTorch, check the RCCL version used by PyTorch.

   For a virtualenv with a .whl-based PyTorch setup (nightly/rocm6.2 at the time
   of writing), this would be in 
   ``<path-to-your-venv>/lib/<python-version>/site-packages/torch/lib/librccl.so``

>    This will be RCCL that is packaged as part of ROCm 6.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is the version of RCCL that is packaged as part of ROCm version 6.2.
```

   RCCL for CPX mode was enabled in ROCm 6.3.0. To use the CPX features, replace the existing 
   ``librccl.so`` with one from ROCm 6.3.0 or newer or from a local build of
   the RCCL develop branch.

To test the effects of RCCL on PyTorch, the `stas00 all reduce benchmark <https://github.com/stas00/ml-engineering/blob/master/network/benchmarks/all_reduce_bench.py>`_
was used. The following command is used to run a single OAM allreduce
benchmark:

.. code-block:: shell

   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 ; python -u -m torch.distributed.run --nproc_per_node=8 --rdzv_endpoint localhost:6000  --rdzv_backend c10d all_reduce_bench.py

For better performance, the ``HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG``, ``RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD``,
and ``TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK`` environment variables are
set during the benchmark in the following manner:

.. code-block:: shell

>    export TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK=1 ; export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1 ; export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=$((2*1024*1024*1024)) ; export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 ; export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 ; python -u -m torch.distributed.run --nproc_per_node=8 --rdzv_endpoint localhost:6000  --rdzv_backend c10d all_reduce_bench.py

Reviewer 2: It would be good to have the env variables one per line.

Author: Updated.

which peaks at ~340 GB/s with a single OAM. The difference in bus bandwidth
between the unoptimized and optimized modes increases as the buffer size grows.

Using RCCL and CPX in PyTorch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The PyTorch all_reduce benchmark is used to reproduce the performance reported
by RCCL-Tests with the RCCL and CPX optimizations.

.. note::

   To use RCCL with CPX mode in PyTorch, check the RCCL version used by PyTorch.

   For a virtualenv with a .whl-based PyTorch setup (such as nightly/rocm6.2),
   this would be in 
   ``<path-to-your-venv>/lib/<python-version>/site-packages/torch/lib/librccl.so``
   This is the version of RCCL that is packaged as part of ROCm version 6.2.

   RCCL for CPX mode was enabled in ROCm 6.3.0. To use the CPX features, replace
   the existing ``librccl.so`` with one from ROCm 6.3.0 or newer or from a local
   build of the RCCL develop branch.

To test the effects of RCCL on PyTorch, the `stas00 all reduce benchmark <https://github.com/stas00/ml-engineering/blob/master/network/benchmarks/all_reduce_bench.py>`_
was used. The following command is used to run a single OAM allreduce
benchmark:

.. code-block:: shell

>    export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7;

Author: ```suggestion
   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
```

   python -u -m torch.distributed.run --nproc_per_node=8 --rdzv_endpoint localhost:6000  --rdzv_backend c10d all_reduce_bench.py

For better performance, the ``HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG``, ``RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD``,
and ``TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK`` environment variables are
set during the benchmark in the following manner:

.. code-block:: shell

>    export TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK=1 ;

Author: ```suggestion
   export TORCH_NCCL_USE_TENSOR_REGISTER_ALLOCATOR_HOOK=1
```

>    export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1 ;

Author: ```suggestion
   export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1
```

>    export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=$((2*1024*1024*1024)) ;

Author: ```suggestion
   export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=$((2*1024*1024*1024))
```

>    export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 ;

Author: ```suggestion
   export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1
```

>    export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 ;

Author: ```suggestion
   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
```

Configuration with fewer than eight GPUs
----------------------------------------

On a system with eight MI300X accelerators, each pair of accelerators is
connected with dedicated Infinity Fabric™ links in a fully connected topology.
For collective operations, this can achieve good performance when all eight
accelerators (and all Infinity Fabric links) are used. When fewer than eight
GPUs are used, however, this can only achieve a fraction of the potential
bandwidth on the system. However, if your workload warrants using fewer than
eight MI300X accelerators on a system, you can set the run-time variable
``NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS`` to increase the number of channels. For example:

.. code-block:: shell

   export NCCL_MIN_NCHANNELS=32

Increasing the number of channels can benefit performance, but it also increases
GPU utilization for collective operations.
Additionally, RCCL pre-defines a higher number of channels when only two or four
accelerators are in use on a 8\*MI300X system. In this situation, RCCL uses 32
channels with two MI300X accelerators and 24 channels for four MI300X
accelerators.

.. _nps4_cpx_mi300_rccl:

NPS4 and CPX partition modes
----------------------------

> Compute partitioning modes or Modular Chiplet Platform (MCP), refers to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The term compute partitioning modes, or Modular Chiplet Platform (MCP), refers to the
```

logical partitioning of XCDs into devices in the ROCm stack. The names are
derived from the number of logical partitions that are created out of the eight

> XCDs. In the default mode, SPX (Single Partition X-celerator), all 8 XCDs are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XCDs. In the default mode, SPX (Single Partition X-celerator), all eight XCDs are
```

> viewed as a single logical compute element, meaning that the :doc:`amd-smi:index`

Reviewer: Formatting for the amd-smi link is incorrect. It shows up as bare text.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
viewed as a single logical compute element, meaning that the :doc:`amdsmi:index`
```

> viewed as a single logical compute element, meaning that the :doc:`amd-smi:index`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
viewed as a single logical compute element, meaning that the :doc:`amdsmi:index`
```
https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-docs-core/blob/902080fd578567ac7f2dd961648e93e45dac6515/src/rocm_docs/data/projects.yaml#L7

utility will show a single MI300X device. In CPX (Core Partitioned X-celerator)

> mode each XCD appears as a separate logical GPU, i.e., eight separate GPUs in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mode, each XCD appears as a separate logical GPU, for example, as eight separate GPUs in
```

> :doc:`amd-smi:index` per MI300X. CPX mode can be viewed as having explicit

Reviewer: Link also incorrect here. I think it needs angled brackets and anchor text.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:doc:`amdsmi:index` per MI300X. CPX mode can be viewed as having explicit
```

> :doc:`amd-smi:index` per MI300X. CPX mode can be viewed as having explicit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:doc:`amdsmi:index` per MI300X. CPX mode can be viewed as having explicit
```

scheduling privileges for each individual compute element (XCD).

While compute partitioning modes change the space on which you can assign work
to compute units, the memory partitioning modes (known as Non-Uniform Memory
Access (NUMA) Per Socket (NPS)) change the number of NUMA domains that a device

> exposes. In other words, it changes the number of HBM stacks which are
> accessible to a compute unit, and thus the size of its memory space. However,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
exposes. In other words, it changes the number of HBM stacks which are
accessible to a compute unit, and therefore the size of its memory space. However,
```

> for MI300, there can only be up to as many memory partitions as compute
> partitions, i.e., the number of memory partitions must be less than or equal to
> the number of compute partitions. NPS4 (viewing pairs of HBM stack as a
> disparate element), for example is only enabled when in CPX mode (viewing each
> XCD as a disparate element).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for the MI300, the number of memory partitions must be less than or equal to
the number of compute partitions. NPS4 (viewing pairs of HBM stacks as a
disparate element), for example, is only enabled when in CPX mode (viewing each
XCD as a disparate element).
```

- Compute partition modes 

>   - In the SPX mode, workgroups launched to the device are distributed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In SPX mode, workgroups launched to the device are distributed
```

>     round-robin to the XCDs in the device. Meaning that the programmer cannot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    round-robin to the XCDs in the device, meaning that the programmer cannot
```

    have explicit control over which XCD a workgroup is assigned to.

>   - In the CPX mode, workgroups are launched to a single XCD, meaning the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In CPX mode, workgroups are launched to a single XCD, meaning the
```

    programmer has explicit control over work placement onto the XCDs.
  
- Memory partition modes 

  - In NPS1 mode (compatible with CPX and SPX), the entire memory is accessible
    to all XCDs.

>   - In NPS4 mode (compatible with CPX) Each memory quadrant of the memory is
>     directly visible to the logical devices in it's quadrant. An XCD can still

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - In NPS4 mode (compatible with CPX), each memory quadrant of the memory is
    directly visible to the logical devices in its quadrant. An XCD can still
```

>   - In NPS4 mode (compatible with CPX) Each memory quadrant of the memory is
>     directly visible to the logical devices in it's quadrant. An XCD can still
>     access all portions of memory through multi-GPU programming techniques.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In NPS4 mode (compatible with CPX), each memory quadrant of the memory is
    directly visible to the logical devices in its quadrant. An XCD can still
    access all portions of memory through multi-GPU programming techniques.
```

> For more information, see :doc:`Dynamically change GPU partition modes <rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the :doc:`Dynamically change GPU partition modes <rocm:how-to/dynamic_partition_modes>`
```

> page. The MI300 CPX mode can be accessed using the following :doc:`rocm-smi:index`

Reviewer: Another instance of the rocm-smi link not being formatted correctly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
page. The MI300 CPX mode can be accessed using the following :doc:`rocm_smi_lib:index`
```

To run RCCL allreduce on 64 GPUs with CPX+NPS4 mode on the MI300X, use this
example:

.. code-block:: shell

   mpirun -np 64 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

To run RCCL allreduce on 8 GPUs in the same OAM with CPX+NPS4 mode on the
MI300X, use this example:

.. code-block:: shell

   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 8 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1

RCCL delivers improved allreduce performance in CPX mode for TP=8 (8 GPUs in
the same OAM) on the MI300X.

.. code-block:: shell

   export HIP_FORCE_DEV_KERNARG=1
   export RCCL_MSCCLPP_THRESHOLD=1073741824

   export MSCCLPP_READ_ALLRED=1 
   export ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7

   mpirun -np 8 --bind-to numa rccl-tests/build/all_reduce_perf -b 32 -e 1G -f 2 -g 1 -G 2 -w 20 -n 50

Here are the benchmark results for in-place (where the output buffer is used as
the input buffer) and out-of-place allreduce bus bandwidth.

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/in-place_allreduce.png
    :alt: In-place allreduce benchmark results
    :align: center

.. figure:: ../data/how-to/rccl-usage-tips/out-of-place_allreduce.png

>     :alt: Out-of-place allreduce benchmark results

Reviewer 2: The graphs still say reduce in the legends. This should be corrected.

Author: Oh, sorry for that.

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer 2: Plotting the exact message sizes in the graphs would be good. Otherwise, looks good.

    :align: center

> A significant performance improvement reachable with optimized CPX mode, which

Reviewer 2: `is achievable`

Author: Updated.

> which peaks at ~340 GB/s with single OAM. The difference in bus bandwidth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which peaks at ~340 GB/s with a single OAM. The difference in bus bandwidth
```

Reviewer: I think this should have the article in front.
